Now that we went through an overview
of the Spark ecosystem and
the components of the Spark stack, it is
time for us to start learning more about
its architecture and run our first
Spark program in the cloud VM.
After this video you will be
able to describe how Spark
does in-memory processing using the
Resilient Distributed Dataset abstraction,
explain the inner workings of
the Spark architecture, and
summarize how Spark manages and
executes code on Clusters.
I mentioned a few times that
Spark is efficient because it
uses an abstraction called RDDs for
in memory processing.
What this means might not be
clear to some of you yet.
Let's remember the alternative.
In Hadoop MapReduce,
each step, also pipeline,
reads from disk to memory,
performs the computations and
writes back its output from
the memory to the disk.
However, writing data to disk
is a costly operation and
this cost becomes even more
with large volumes of data.
Here is an interesting fact.
Memory operations can
be up to 100,000 times
faster than disk operations in some cases.
Spark instead takes advantage of this and
allows for
immediate results of transformations
in different stages of the pipeline and
memory, like MAP and REDUCE here.
Here, we see that the outputs
of MAP operations
are shared with reduce operations
without being written to the disk.
The containers where the data
gets stored in memory
are called resilient distributed
datasets or RDDs for short.
RDDs are how Spark distributes data and
computations across
the nodes of a commodity cluster,
preferably with large memory.
Thanks to this abstraction,
Spark has proven to be 100 times
faster for some applications.
Let's define all the words
in this interesting name
beginning with the last one, datasets.
Datasets that RDD distributes comes
from a batch data storage like HDFS,
no SQL databases, text files or streaming
data ingestion systems like Cafco.
It can even conveniently read and
distribute the data from your local disc
like text files into Spark, or
even a hierarchy of folders.
When Spark reads data from these sources,
it generates RDDs for them.
The Spark operations can transform RDDs
into other RDDs like any other data.
Here it's important to mention
that RDDs are immutable.
This means that you cannot
change them partially.
However, you can create new RDDs by
a series of one or many transformations.
Next, let's look at what distributed
means in the RDD context.
As I mentioned before, RDDs distribute
partitioned data collections and
computations on clusters even
across a number of machines.
For example, running on the Amazon Cloud.
The complexity of this operation is
hidden by this very simple interface.
Computations are a diverse set of
transformations of RDDs like map,
filter and join.
And also actions on the RDDs like counting
and saving them persistently on disk.
The partitioning of data can be changed
dynamically to optimize Spark's
performance.
The last element is resilient, and
it's very important because in a large
scale computing environment it is
pretty common to have node failures.
It's very important to be
able to recover from these
situations without losing
any work already done.
For full tolerance in such situations,
Spark tracks the history of each
partition, keeping a lineage
over RDDs over time,
so every point in your calculations,
Spark knows which are the partitions
needed to recreate the partition
in case it gets lost.
And if that happens,
then Spark automatically figures out
where it can start the recompute from and
optimizes the amount of processing
needed to recover from the failure.
Before we create our first Spark program
using RDDs in Pi Spark in the cloud
layer VM,
let's review Spark's architecture.
From a bird's eye view,
Spark has two main components,
a driver program and worker nodes.
The driver program is where
your application starts.
It distributes RDDs on your
computational cluster and
makes sure the transformations and
actions on these RDDs are performed.
Driver programs create
a connection to a Spark cluster or
your local Spark through
a Spark context object.
The default Spark context
in the Spark shell is
an object called SC for Spark context.
For example, in the upcoming reading for
creating word counts in Spark,
we will use SC as the context to
generate RDDs for a text file
using the line of code shown here.
The driver program manages a potentially
large number of nodes called worker nodes.
On a local computer, we can assume
that there's only one worker node and
it is where the Spark operations execute.
A worker node in Spark keeps
a running Java virtual machine,
called JVM commonly, called the executor.
Depending on the illustration,
executor can execute task
related to mapping stages or
reducing stages or
other Spark specific pipelines.
This Java virtual machine is the core
that all the computation is executed,
and this is the interface also to the rest
of the Big Data storage systems and tools.
For example, if we ever had the Hadoop
file system, HTFS, as the storage system,
then on each worker node,
some of the data will be stored locally.
As you know, the most important point
of this computing framework is to bring
the computation to data.
So Spark will send some
computational jobs to be executed
on the data that are already available
on the machine thanks to HDFS.
Data will be read from HDFS and
get processed in memory,
the results will be stored as one RDD.
The actual computation is running
straight in the executor,
that is the JVM that runs your Scala or
Java codes.
Instead, if you are using PySpark
then there will be several Python
processes generally, one for task but
you can configure it depending
on your application.
In a real Big Data scenario, we have many
worker nodes running tasks internally.
It is important to have a system that can
automatically manage provisioning and
restarting of these nodes.
The cluster manager in
Spark has this capability.
Spark currently supports mainly three
interfaces for cluster management,
namely Spark's standalone cluster manager,
the Apache Mesos, and Hadoop YARN.
Standalone means that there's a special
Spark process that takes care of
restarting nodes that are failing or
starting nodes at the beginning
of the computation.
YARN and Mesos are two external research
measures that can be used also for
these purposes.
Choosing a cluster manager
to fit your application and
infrastructure can be quite confusing.
Here, we give you a good
article as a starting point on
how to pick the right cluster manager for
your organization.
To summarize, the Spark architecture
includes a driver program.
The driver program communicates
with the cluster manager for
monitoring and
provisioning of resources and
communicates directly with worker
nodes to submit and execute tasks.
RDDs get created and passed within
transformations running in the executable.
Finally, let's see how this
setup works on the Cloudera VM.
In the Cloudera VM,
we are using Spark in standalone mode and
everything is running locally.
So it's a single machine and on the same
machine we have our driver program,
the executor JVM and
our single PySpark process.
With that, we are ready to start with
our first reading to install Spark and
then running our word count program
using the Spark environment.